目标：
1. 理解 #[account] 宏定义
2. 理解 #[account] 作用



内容：
1. #[account]定义
应用于结构体上，来定义定制化的账户类型。 It marks a  struct as a Solana account.

2. #[account]作用
1）Implements traits for serialization and deserialization of account data.
2）Sets the 8-byte discriminator at the start of account data, which uniquely identifies the account type.
3）Sets the owner of the account to the program's ID (as declared in declare_id!).
4）Enables secure account validation by ensuring the account matches the expected type and owner during deserialization.

2.1 Account Serialization/Deserialization
    implements the necessary traits for the struct to be serialized to and deserialized from Solana account data. This includes implementing AccountSerialize and AccountDeserialize traits.


2.2 Discriminator 
    It adds an 8-byte discriminator to the beginning of the account data. This discriminator is a unique
    identifier derived from the struct name that helps Anchor distinguish between different account types.

    account types ? 

2.3 Account Validation 
    It enables Anchor's account validation system, allowing you to use the struct in instruction contexts
    with proper validation.

2.4 Client-Side Code Generation
    It enables Anchor to generate TypeScript/JavaScript client code for interacting with this account type. 



举例：
#[account]
#[derive(Default, Debug)]
pub struct AmmConfig{
    // ...
}
The #[account] attribute tells Anchor that 
1. AmmConfig represents a Solana account that can store data
2. The struct should be automatically serializable/deserializable
3. It should include the standard 8-byte discriminator
4. It can be used in instruction contexts for account validation.



